Samples/custom-operator-cpu-sample/desktop/cpp/README.md, before:

# SqueezeNet Object Detection sample

This is a desktop application that uses models containing custom operator definitions and implementations.

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio 2017 Version 15.7.4 or Newer](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads)
- [Windows 10 - Build 17763 or higher](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewiso)
- [Windows SDK - Build 17763 or higher](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewSDK)
- Visual Studio Extension for C++/WinRT

  Do the following to add the C++/WinRT extension in Visual Studio.
  1. Go to **Tools > Extensions and Updates**. 
  2. Select **Online** in the left pane and search for "WinRT" using the search box.
  3. Select the **C++/WinRT** extension, click **Download**, and close Visual Studio. The extension should install automatically.
  4. When the extension has finished installing, re-open Visual Studio.

## Build the sample

1. If you download the samples ZIP, be sure to unzip the entire archive, not just the folder with the sample you want to build.
2. Start Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 and select **File > Open > Project/Solution**.
3. Starting in the folder where you unzipped the samples, go to the **Samples** subfolder, then the subfolder for this specific sample (**custom-operator-cpu-sample\desktop\cpp**). Double-click the Visual Studio solution file (.sln).
4. Confirm that the project is pointed to the correct SDK that you installed (e.g. 17763). You can do this by right-clicking the project in the **Solution Explorer**, selecting **Properties**, and modifying the **Windows SDK Version**.
5. Confirm that you are set for the right configuration and platform (for example: Debug, x64).
6. Build the solution (**Ctrl+Shift+B**).

## Run the sample

1. Open a Command Prompt (in the Windows 10 search bar, type **cmd** and press **Enter**).
2. Change the current folder to the folder containing the built EXE (`cd <path-to-exe>`).
3. Run the executable as shown below. Make sure to replace the install location with what matches yours:
  ```
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe debug
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe noisyrelu
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe relu
  ```

## License

MIT. See [LICENSE file](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-Machine-Learning/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

include in the readme instructions for reusing the debug operator code

Samples/custom-operator-cpu-sample/desktop/cpp/README.md, after:

# SqueezeNet Object Detection sample

This is a desktop application that uses models containing custom operator definitions and implementations.

To reuse the debug operator you will need to compile debug_cpu.cpp and debug_cpu.h into your project.
Additionally you will need to compile customoperatorprovider.h into your project but first remove non DebugOperatorFactory functions in the RegisterSchemas and RegisterKernels subroutines.
You also need to remove the include statements for relu_cpu.h and noisyrelu_cpu.h.

Then when you initialize your LearningModel, pass in a custom provider like so:

```
 auto customOperatorProvider = winrt::make<CustomOperatorProvider>();
 auto provider = customOperatorProvider.as<ILearningModelOperatorProvider>();
 auto model = LearningModel::LoadFromFilePath(modelPath, provider);
```

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio 2017 Version 15.7.4 or Newer](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads)
- [Windows 10 - Build 17763 or higher](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewiso)
- [Windows SDK - Build 17763 or higher](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windowsinsiderpreviewSDK)
- Visual Studio Extension for C++/WinRT

  Do the following to add the C++/WinRT extension in Visual Studio.
  1. Go to **Tools > Extensions and Updates**. 
  2. Select **Online** in the left pane and search for "WinRT" using the search box.
  3. Select the **C++/WinRT** extension, click **Download**, and close Visual Studio. The extension should install automatically.
  4. When the extension has finished installing, re-open Visual Studio.

## Build the sample

1. If you download the samples ZIP, be sure to unzip the entire archive, not just the folder with the sample you want to build.
2. Start Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 and select **File > Open > Project/Solution**.
3. Starting in the folder where you unzipped the samples, go to the **Samples** subfolder, then the subfolder for this specific sample (**custom-operator-cpu-sample\desktop\cpp**). Double-click the Visual Studio solution file (.sln).
4. Confirm that the project is pointed to the correct SDK that you installed (e.g. 17763). You can do this by right-clicking the project in the **Solution Explorer**, selecting **Properties**, and modifying the **Windows SDK Version**.
5. Confirm that you are set for the right configuration and platform (for example: Debug, x64).
6. Build the solution (**Ctrl+Shift+B**).

## Run the sample

1. Open a Command Prompt (in the Windows 10 search bar, type **cmd** and press **Enter**).
2. Change the current folder to the folder containing the built EXE (`cd <path-to-exe>`).
3. Run the executable as shown below. Make sure to replace the install location with what matches yours:
  ```
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe debug
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe noisyrelu
  custom-operator-cpu-sample.exe relu
  ```

## License

MIT. See [LICENSE file](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-Machine-Learning/blob/master/LICENSE).
